So basically, top task analysis involves,
as we say, gathering a long list of tasks,
rationalizing them down into something a
little bit more manageable, getting users
to vote on the tasks that matter the most,
and then we analyze the results, right?
I've got quite a lightweight way of doing
it that I'm the first to say is not
the most the official way of
doing top task analysis, but
it will get you where you wanna go, right?
So let's just run through
very quickly how to do it.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
jump in and we're gonna create a survey.
Now there's a particular app that I tend
to use for doing this, which is an app
called PollUnit not to be confused with
Pollfish that I mentioned earlier.
Trust me, I constantly confuse them.
But Pollfish allows you to
add a load of ideas and
for real users to vote those ideas up and
down.
Well, no just up, right?
So I like this so I'm gonna click
the heart because I want that thing.
And if there's a thing that they
want that's not on the list,
they can add that as an idea themselves.
You've probably seen things like this.
There's a lot of sites that
allow you to vote on features,
a lot of apps that allow you to vote on
upcoming features that people want, right.
So we're gonna create
a survey with PollUnit.
We're gonna populate that survey with our
initial list of all the features that
we thought of.
And then we're gonna ask
users to basically vote
on those existing tasks on features or
suggest new ones, right?
Very simple and to do.
If you need more information and wanna
be taken through the logistics of how to
do this, check out my course
on user research and testing.
Then when we've done that,
we're gonna go through and
we're gonna remove our duplicates.
So there will be people that
suggest the same thing twice.
We're gonna remove those and
combine their votes together.
And we're gonna simplify the wording
down a little bit just so
that it's easier because
sometimes people will write,
I would really like to be able to do this,
blah, blah, blah, blah.
And you could just put the feature
name in there instead,
just to make it easier for
you to do all of that.
I mean, you can use AI to
help do all of this analysis.
So I've written a nice prompt for
you there.
That will output a nice neat list for
you of using
the results that you've can
download from POM unit.
He said trying to get the right name for
it.
But the long the short of it is once
you've gone through this exercise,
you'll end up with a nice list
of prioritized features that
your target audience most
wants from your app, right?
And that is invaluable
because now you can go well,
I know I get a much better idea
of what I I need to build.
And you'll probably find that
the top third of the list,
of all the suggestions,
gets the vast majority of the votes.
And then it'll suddenly tail off with a
lot of other random stuff that people have
suggested.
So it's that top third you
wanna focus on for your MVP.
So you know you're building the right
things now for the right audience.
We're really getting there now and
honing in.
Now, one of the things that
you might be thinking is,
how do I do this top task analysis because
I don't have access to my users, right?
Well, this is the grumpy old man's
coming back out at this point,
kinda looks afraid.
The grumpy old man's, because if that
is the case, you've got a big problem.
Think about it, if you don't have
access to your users to get them to do
a top task analysis, how will you gonna
convince them to use the product.
You've gotta be able to get to your
audience in order to be able to
persuade them to use the app.
And that's why in the final
section of this workshop,
we're gonna explore that
challenge in more depth, right?
Because it is crucial to success.
You need people if you need people
to fulfill fill in a survey
that's easy compared to
get them into buy the app.
So you got to find ways to get
people to complete the survey and
if you can't do that, then you know
you're in trouble [LAUGH] all right?
Possible places you can look Reddit,
Forums, Mailing lists,
social media,
anywhere your audience basically are.
You can post and say, hey,
I'm thinking about building this app,
I'd really appreciate it if you spent 30
seconds voting on some possible features
that I could include in it.
And hopefully you'll get a response.
If you get really desperate there
are services out there that will do
recruitment for
you to get people to complete this survey.
So many testing tools will
recruit people for you for
as little as $1 a person to
complete a survey like this.
One that I use quite a lot is Askable and
you can point know them those
people straight up PullUnit.
So know you know your top tasks you
can plan your launch features, right?
And for selecting your launch features,
you don't necessarily just pick the top
tasks because there are other
things to consider.
Does it fit with the market and
what you're trying to do in the market?
Is it practical?
[LAUGH] Can I actually build that thing?
Just to touch on our market fit,
your top task analysis is
absolutely a part of the market fit,
is what people are demanding.
But you've also got to consider
your value proposition as well.
So I'm sure a lot of people
asked Mark to include courses on
Frontend Masters that are about
topics that aren't particularly
relevant to developers and
the goal of helping developers.
Occasionally let the old one squeak
through otherwise I wouldn't be
speaking as I'm not really a developer.
But generally speaking, you will
still stay stay focused on his value
proposition which is creating great
content for developers, right?
You've also got to
consider the competition,
of course, based on your market research.
Is that feature gonna actually help
you stand out from the competition?
And you also need to
think about the impact.
Will this feature really impress your
audience and create a bit of buzz, right?
So those are all the market fit
considerations you need to put into what
features you're gonna go with.
And then there's a bit,
there's a couple of practicalities.
There is how easy is it to build?
Is it gonna be scalable.
So often you can build something
that is great to begin with but
isn't gonna scale as the application
becomes more complicated.
And sometimes you can ignore
scalability and go, well, fair enough.
We'll deal with that
problem when we get to it.
And that's okay but
just be aware that you're doing that.
And then often, personally, for
each feature that I'm thinking
about building I create a good old
fashioned user story card cuz I've
been indoctrinated into these.
If you haven't come across
user story cards before,
it's a basic statement as a,
I want to, so I can, right?
So something like, as a frontend
developer, I wanna learn about MVPs so
I can plan my SaaS app launch,
that kind of thing.
So you got your features,
you've got your audience,
you know your market is
it time to build yet?
No [LAUGH] I'm still not
letting you code anything.
But what [LAUGH] I am suggesting as
you prototype now might be for you.
Actually, the quickest way
to prototype is in code,
in which case that's absolutely fine, but
don't try and build the actual thing yet.
There are three reasons for prototyping
before you try and go for the full build.
First of all, it's gonna save you effort.
It's easy to waste time building features
that turn out not to be fit for purpose.
Even with all this research and
even with all this thought,
sometimes you can be surprised and
that comes back to bite you.
Second, prototyping avoids mistakes
that will be time consuming to
fix within a full build.
And ultimately that means you'll get to
the market quicker because you won't make
mistakes when you're actually building and
it's costly.
And also, prototyping can
help you plan for the future,
it can help you envisage the features of
an app so you can lay better foundations.
So I tend to start with wireframes, and
I talk a lot more about prototyping
in my product design course.
But I start with lo-fi wireframes
to give me a bird's eye view of how
the application will fit together and
how all the features work together.
And then I will probably do
some high fidelity mock-ups for
critical screens partly because
that allows me to do some
lightweight testing that answers
three fundamental questions.
But also, because those screens can
be very useful in the final section
we're gonna look at which is
running a test campaign, right?
So what can you learn from
this kind of prototyping?
The what you're trying to take away here
is trying to put it in front of some users
in a very lightweight way and we learn
three things, do they like it, right?
Does it resonate with them?
Do they get excited about it?
Do they get it?
Do they understand what it is and
how it's supposed to work and
what it can do for them?
And can they use it, right?
Can they successfully navigate it,
complete tasks, etc?
Once you've prototyped up a few pages and
the kind of flow of it.
You don't need to do the whole thing.
I'm not insisting that every page is
created as a high fidelity prototype.
We've got better things
to do with our lives.
But once you got a few pages and
a feel of how it all fits together,
give it a go of testing it with
something like listen this is a great
app that does three very
basic tests that we can try.
Again, I've talked about this in my
course on user research and testing.
So the three tests I tend to run are do
they like it tests, which is a survey.
And basically the survey
ask them what words they
associate with the app
that you've created.
Exciting, is it innovative,
is it perfect for my needs or
whatever else you just, words come back.
Just to get a sense of what
people think about it.
More details on running
those in the other course.
Then we can look at, do they get it?
I typically use a five-second test for
this.
Where I show one of my
high fidelity mockups or
even several of them to user for
a short length of time, a few seconds.
Take it away and then ask them,
what was the app?
What did it do?
What was it about?
What could I achieve via it?
And then finally, can they use it?
I'll ask them to show them a mockup and
I'll say if you wanted to create
a new task in this task app or
if you wanted to create a new project in
this task app, where would you click?
And then they click on the mock up and
it records where they've clicked and
you can see where the people
are clicking in the right place, etc.
I'm really skipping over this.
I do go into a lot more detail
in my other courses, but
the principle is it's worth doing a little
bit of a sanity check in a little
bit of lightweight prototyping
before you start building.
The bigger question is, well, should I be
building a fully interactive prototype and
doing a lot more thorough testing?
To which the answer is yes,
but not now, right?
We still don't know despite
all of our research,
despite all of our competitive analysis,
our understanding of users,
we don't know one fundamental thing
which Mark mentioned earlier.
Will people part with cash, right?
Will people actually buy this thing?
And we need to know that before we
actually start getting into the heavy
development cycle of proper prototyping,
proper testing, etc.
So just to wrap this kind of defining your
MVP section up before we
look at that final area.
An MVP, it's an indispensable step I would
argue in creating a SaaS application.
Prototyping is an indispensable part.
You wanna brainstorm as many tasks as you
think that users might wanna complete.
You wanna identify the tasks
that matter most users,
work out what features are practical
to actually create and
then just prototype a little bit
of that before you go any further.
Then once you've prototyped
a little bit of it,
once you feel you've done a bit of testing
then we're gonna run a test campaign.
And this is where the rubber
really hits the road.